DESIGN.md, before:

# Design
Planning and research for product design.

# Core
Core design principles:
- Focus on speech.

# Plugins
Plugin system allows for multiple teaching modules, each with their own target.

## Plugin system
- Some plugins are for "sub-games" e.g. ways of structuring lessons
- These sub-games are matrixed with curriculum modules, so for example "use 'color' module with the 'use it in a
  sentence' sub-game"

## Ideas for plugins
- "Try to use these vocab words in your conversation"
    - MVP: toss in some colors, check that the user used them corectly.
- "Read this summary of a news article and answer some questions"

## Curriculum
- Curriculum sketched in `planning/design_a_course.txt`
    - beginner 12 week course
    - basic vocabulary and grammar modules

### Grammar

### Vocabulary

### Culture

### Idioms

### Other
- History
- Science
- Pop culture
- Cooking
- Business
- Dating

# Etc. features
- Embed conversations for knowledgebase search.
    - Allows assistant to call back to previous conversations.
- Translate conversation to user's native language when finished.

# Privacy
"""
The only user data I collect is your conversation transcripts. Voice recordings are deleted at the end of each session.
Transcripts are kept to help you track your progress and hone in on problem areas. If you want, you can request that I
delete all your user data, including the transcripts of your conversations - you can download a copy before you submit
the deletion request if you want, and then I'll delete them en toto.

Having said this, I can't guarantee the same for OpenAI, who provide the conversational AI that powers Moshi. They will
keep both your voice recordings and conversational transcripts. The same goes for Google, who uses tracking cookies to
serve you targeted ads - they'll of course keep that data.
"""

# Monetization
- Free tier uses text-davinci-003, requires the user to get their own API key
- Ads

Commit message:

todo and design doc work

DESIGN.md, after:

# Design
Planning and research for product design.

## Core principles
- Focus on speech.
- Longitudinal, multi-conversation functionality.
- Tailor content to the user's interests and skill level.

## High level
The curriculum is some mix of de novo conversations and structured lessons.
De novo conversations are dificult because you have to come up with a topic...

# Plugins
Plugin system allows for multiple teaching modules, each with their own target.

## Plugin system
- Some plugins are for "sub-games" e.g. ways of structuring lessons
- These sub-games are matrixed with curriculum modules, so for example "use 'color' module with the 'use it in a
  sentence' sub-game"

## Ideas for plugins
- "Try to use these vocab words in your conversation"
    - MVP: toss in some colors, check that the user used them corectly.
- "Read this summary of a news article and answer some questions"

## Curriculum
- Curriculum sketched in `planning/design_a_course.txt`
    - beginner 12 week course
    - basic vocabulary and grammar modules

### Grammar

### Vocabulary
- colors
- numbers
- fruits and vegetables

### Culture

### Idioms

### Other
- History
- Science
- Pop culture
- Cooking
- Business
- Dating

# Etc. features
- Embed conversations for knowledgebase search.
    - Allows assistant to call back to previous conversations.
- Translate conversation to user's native language when finished.

# Privacy
"""
The only user data I collect is your conversation transcripts. Voice recordings are deleted at the end of each session.
Transcripts are kept to help you track your progress and hone in on problem areas. If you want, you can request that I
delete all your user data, including the transcripts of your conversations - you can download a copy before you submit
the deletion request if you want, and then I'll delete them en toto.

Having said this, I can't guarantee the same for OpenAI, who provide the conversational AI that powers Moshi. They will
keep both your voice recordings and conversational transcripts. The same goes for Google, who uses tracking cookies to
serve you targeted ads - they'll of course keep that data.
"""

# Monetization
- Free tier uses text-davinci-003, requires the user to get their own API key
- Ads
